Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings, fellow practitioners.
Dear fellow practitioners, today
we will once again share and encourage each other
through the scriptures so that we may continue to cultivate
compassion through the program of practicing and
praying for the enduring presence of the true Dharma in the
world.
And the meaning of cultivating a compassionate mind
is that the mind, through mindful contemplation, has been discerned in
the sutra that all dharmas require careful attention,
so that the wondrous Dharma does not become chaotic or
disappear.  So,
today's sutra is
titled "Respecting and complying with the
Dharma allows the true Dharma to endure."
Source: The Southern Buddhist Canon,
Samyutta Nikaya, Volume 2, Chapter 16, Samyutta Kashyapa,
Dharma Image,
Vietnamese translation by Venerable Thich Minh Chau.   At
this time, we respectfully ask our esteemed fellow practitioners to join
hands and recite the sacred name of the Buddha, seeking his blessings.
Namo
Buddha, our original
teacher
Shakyamuni
.
Oh, Nam A
Buddha, the original teacher Shakyamuni Buddha
.  Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
At the An Quan temple, I respectfully request permission to read the scriptures.
Thus I heard that at one time the Buddha was residing in
the city of Shravasti, in the Jetavana monastery, in the garden of
Anathapindika.
Dear fellow practitioners, for those
Buddhists who have been to India,
they will be able to imagine whatever they hear about it.  That's a good thing, is
n't it?  It's very beneficial.
Then the venerable Mahakasyapa went to the Buddha, and
after arriving, he paid his respects to the Buddha and sat
down to one side.
Sit down to one side.  The Venerable Great Brother Yīpāramitā Svāhūmi
.
Venerable Buddha, for what reason, for what cause, are there
fewer monks who fall short in the precepts, yet
more monks attain true wisdom?
Reverend fellow practitioners, may you attain true wisdom
.  Right understanding is the knowledge of the
Four Noble Truths.   These are
called the fourfold truth of suffering: the origin of suffering, the cessation of
suffering,
and the path to the cessation of suffering—that is the Noble
Truth of
the Path
.
So here,
Venerable Kasyapa asked, "What is the reason,
what is the cause, that some monks, despite having fewer precepts and less education, attain
more true wisdom—that is, more attain the Four Noble Truths—and
therefore attain
sainthood in much greater numbers?"
So, dear fellow practitioners, when
our Buddha attained enlightenment, for the
first 12 years he did not establish any precepts, not a
single precept.  That means the Buddha only
preached the Dharma.  When monks hear the Dharma,
receive its teachings,
contemplate its meaning,
conform to the Dharma,
diligently practice it, they attain
enlightenment.  There, we hear the four brothers of
Kieu Tran Nhu listening to the Buddha's
teachings on the
Four Noble Truths.
If
those five brothers just followed the Dharma in their thinking
and practice, they wouldn't have attained anything for long.
Attain the state of Arhatship.   The
same was true for Venerable Moggallana, and the same was true for Venerable
Sariputta.  But after 12 years, as
more people joined the monastic order, they became lazy in their
thinking.  Because of laziness in thinking, the Buddha
had to establish precepts.  So what is gender?  The precepts
also gradually manifest themselves through the laws of nature.  For
example, with a very
well-behaved child,
parents only need to teach them to
respect their elders, first their grandparents, then their parents, then their older siblings, and finally their younger siblings.
Immediately, the child will
listen, greet their grandparents when they come home from school.
Before going to school, he will say goodbye to his grandparents.
When eating, they have to invite their grandparents first, then their
parents.  If there are older siblings at home, the child has to
ask for their opinion on everything.  Then, when there's a younger sibling, they have to
learn to give way.
However, there are also children who,
despite being told the answer, don't understand
anything and don't think critically, so you have to start by
giving them a goal.  Is that right?  When eating
a meal, you must invite your grandparents first, then your
parents; if you don't invite them, you're not allowed to eat.
Even after being given the instructions, he still keeps forgetting them
.  Is that correct?
Forget about going up, forget about enjoying yourself, but it still won't invite you.
But there are some kids who hear
about it, but if they don't invite them, they
feel awkward or uneasy.  That means, deep down,
it knows that
it didn't invite anyone, which means it was being impolite.  Is that right
?  But some children
said, "Why do we have to invite family members?"
Why keep inviting them?  There.  So, what do we
understand
the world to be?  It's about clearly analyzing what
the Buddha taught in that Dharma discourse is about in order to
become a monk, but in reality, just listening to the Dharma
and understanding it is
very easy.  But then there are
people who hear the Dharma but misunderstand it
.  Our club has been practicing the
ten mindfulness practices.  So, regarding the practice of reciting the Buddha's name,
what did the Buddha teach that each recitation should be about?  What are the merits of the
Buddha?  Is it necessary to cultivate a compassionate heart
?  He has existed for countless eons
in truth.  He came from the truth, and that
truth is without falsehood.
There.
So
what is the Buddha?  Are you a master of divinity
?
That is, we must understand this clearly so that
our hearts may always be filled with reverence.
We modify behavior.  For example, if
we just chant the name,
someone might say, "
This teacher is very good."  He's a fortune teller
.  Go to your house, see for yourself what it's
like, because I see your family is
really suffering.  Then we recite the name of the Buddha, who is the perfect and complete being
.  He
knows everything perfectly.  So we just came to ask,
what is it?  In the teachings of Buddha.
No one can compare.  Therefore, we
cannot go and ask other people.  No one
can be equal to the Buddha.  So, have you recited the
Buddha's name yet?  Recite the Buddha's name.  That's what the Buddha was
like.  So, thanks to reciting Buddha's name,
I haven't fallen into any wrong path?  Is the description of the ant
correct?  When I clearly understand cause and
effect, I am at peace and my worries are reduced
.  Isn't that right?  I went there and
asked the teachers
what kind of phenomenon I was experiencing in Buddhism.  The reason why is
that, and how can it be transformed?  That's
not going to a sorcerer and using
effigies or burning a
pile of paper money, right?  With such specific dates and times, even just
that one small thing
shows that
those who listen to Buddhist teachings might
misunderstand, right?  They misunderstood even the
Buddha's teachings.  Therefore, Venerable
Kashyapa asked here why it was like that?
Why is it that, due to some cause or circumstance,
fewer monks are outranked in the precepts, yet
more monks attain perfect wisdom?  Yet
now there are more scholars but fewer who have attained enlightenment
.  "
Venerable Lord, for what reason, for what cause, is it that
today there are more monks studying the precepts, but
fewer monks attain true wisdom?"
The question here is why there are
so many academics but so few high-ranking officials?  So, that means that those who attain
enlightenment regarding these four fundamental truths, or who
achieve this enlightenment, are very rare.  The Buddha
replied as follows: "This is how it happens,
Kashyapa: in times when sentient beings
decline, when the Dharma disappears, there are more
precepts than
monks who attain perfect wisdom."
That is, the Buddha taught that during the
time when the Wonderful Dharma disappears, the term "wonderful
Dharma" was analyzed by Tâm Chế Hàn Quán
in the sutra on the careful practices
to prevent the Wonderful Dharma from disappearing
.   This will
enable the true Dharma to endure in
the world for a long time.
Therefore, the Wonderful Dharma is the supreme Dharma,
or what we call the Dharma of liberation,
or the true Dharma.
The Buddha taught this: In times when sentient
beings decline, when the
Dharma disappears, and when the Dharma is in
turmoil, many people study the precepts,
but few attain true wisdom.
O Kasyapa, the Wonderful Dharma will not disappear
until the image of the Dharma ceases to appear
in the world.
And when will the image of the Buddha appear in
the world when the Dharma disappears?
The term "image Dharma" refers to the period when
the teachings were similar to those of the "true Dharma."
There are teachings and practitioners, but a lack of
enlightened individuals, so they are called statues.  During the
period of the Buddhist era, people were only interested in
cultivating merit and blessings, not in seeking wisdom and
liberation.  That means people are only cultivating merit,
not liberation.  In the time
of the Buddha, when the monks
, those who
had received the monastic vows and
renounced the world to practice Buddhism,
what kind of lives did they live?  Leaving their families behind, they lived without a
family in the
mountains and forests to practice meditation.  It was the same during the time of the
Buddha.  We see that there is a figure named
Devadatta.
What did he start getting involved in?  Power-hungry.
If one is greedy for power and pleasure, the
wondrous Dharma will disappear.
That Devadatta, he had already
attained the five supernatural powers.
But wasn't his desire to lead
that monastic order a sign of power-seeking?  Seeing
the Buddha like that, he said that he was
just like the Buddha.  This monastic order should have been
led by him.  When he's in a position of power,
he's power-hungry.  Then he
conspired with King Ashoka.  So
what exactly is he after?  Greed for profit, greed for fame, greed for
wealth—
when there is greed for fame and profit, and the environment for
spiritual practice is gone, then what is there to
crave? Is it
not true, fellow practitioners? Because of greed for fame and position,
people no longer pay attention to spiritual practice
.  They just want him to have as many
positions as possible.  Many people pursue fame and
fortune, but few truly practice spiritual cultivation.  That's
why this place is called the era of the Dharma image, so
people only want to pray for blessings
and not for wisdom anymore.  No more intellectual pursuits
.  Actually, what I'm saying reflects the
reality of our situation.  Our Buddhists only become monks or nuns when they are
suffering so much, hoping to receive some
blessings to alleviate their suffering.
As for seeking wisdom or
liberation, that also exists, but it's less common.  It
very rarely arises in our minds
.
We rarely seek the idea of
liberation.  How can I be freed
from this cycle of reincarnation?  It makes me realize
how much suffering there is in this cycle of reincarnation.
How can I escape this cycle of reincarnation?
How can I overcome my greed?
How can I come to understand impermanence?
Is that right?  How often do we witness the impermanence of things?   It's
rare to find a restaurant like this, very
rare indeed.  Without contemplating impermanence and non-self,
people tend to cling to attachments and desires
.  If one is attached to worldly things, how can one attain true wisdom
, how can one
contemplate the Four Noble Truths
?  This is suffering, isn't it?
What does "seeking fame" mean?  It's tough.  Greed for wealth leads to suffering.
What is "tham sac"?  It's suffering.  There are very few.  Therefore,
what the Buddha taught is
also true when we see it in ourselves
.
We ourselves agree with this
.  We only pray for merit
.
Talking about cultivating the six harmonies is very difficult.   It's very difficult to become a monk
.  I know what the six harmonies mean.
It is egolessness.
Every day, we contemplate the six harmonies and examine
whether we have practiced them correctly.
Then, we will be able to practice the contemplation of non-self
.
Then our ego will gradually
disappear.  There, let's gradually eliminate them.
But it's very difficult.  Although we know what we can achieve by practicing the
six harmonies, what can we accomplish?  Attain Buddhahood.  Meeting the
Buddha, attaining Buddhahood, becoming a guiding teacher—
all these things are necessary to achieve supreme
enlightenment.  But how many of
us are truly kind and peaceful
?  When
something affects us, we can no
longer remain passive.
We cannot make peace anymore.  Let it touch something of
ours.  It makes us angry
or makes us do something.  The
root cause of this is that we cannot
reconcile.
So here, it is said that practicing right mindfulness is about
enlightenment, about an enlightened mind, about seeking liberation,
about contemplating suffering.  Now we
know that practicing the six harmonies helps to gradually eliminate suffering.
What is suffering?  It is greed.  Greed and attachment are
simply the ego.  That's it, a fall.
Thus, we have come to understand the
noble power of the Six Harmonious Principles,
which helps us eliminate the ego,
generate liberating wisdom, and
achieve
liberation.  But how many of us truly
understand such precious teachings?  Here, dear fellow
practitioners, in those Dharma centers, you
can see that some
centers have formed groups to contemplate the mind,
daily checking to see what they have practiced today,
what they have practiced the six harmonies, what they have not yet practiced,
but that is very rare, is
n't it? The number of our Buddhist Dharma centers is
very small, and
very few of our groups
focus on this, paying close attention to
this practice.  Now, fellow practitioners, you
must see that the example we've
given in this committee is how
we've practiced the six harmonies today, isn't that
right?  There are very few things that haven't been put into practice yet
, not many at
all.  But if we can practice
that, it would be great.  Therefore,
when we practice in this way,
we are truly upholding our own moral precepts
.  Isn't that right?  We
can set our own boundaries and protect ourselves.  It's very
easy.  The Venerable Master An Quan is pleased to read this.  For example,
Kasyapa, true gold will not disappear
until counterfeit gold appears in the world.  And,
Kasyapa, when counterfeit gold appears in the
world, true gold will disappear.
That means if I say I'll pay you
three ounces of gold, and those three ounces of gold
are real gold, then there's no way they could be fake,
right?  If I give him three
ounces of fake gold, will the real gold disappear right then and
there?  It's lost.  That's an example
.  The same applies to the
venerable Kasyapa: the Wonderful Dharma will not disappear until
the image of the Dharma appears in the world.  And now,
Kasyapa, when the image of the Dharma appears in the world,
will the Wonderful Dharma disappear?
So we must remember that the term
we are referring to here is the period of the
Buddhist iconography.   The
period of the true Dharma.  But that's
just a period; in each
individual matter, there are symbolic representations and other
aspects as well.  There is also the true Dharma.  In other words, if at some point
we contemplate the
Four Noble Truths and practice them ourselves,
then at that very moment, the image of the Dharma will be
meaningless?  If it doesn't appear,
what will the statue transform into?  Disappear.  For example, when going on
alms rounds, the monks go down to beg for
food, to eat, and they see
a dish that looks very delicious, but there's
very little of it left.  But we're right here at
the head of the table, begging for
this food, yet our eyes are looking up and seeing there's still
little left.  So what did you naturally guess in your heart
?  Those three others took it all, so
there's no chance for me.  Naturally, when
we start to feel greedy,
we become greedy.  And it is this greed that is the
root of suffering.  It is
this greed that is binding us, that is causing us
suffering.  Whatever happens, happens,
so we'll eat this.  So
what was it at that moment?  What is the benefit of following the true Dharma?  To be
present in one's own heart.  Is that right?
What will the statue then transform into?  It's gone
, it will disappear.   The same applies
here.  That means we
are disciples of the Buddha, we practice, and
we are all equal in the path to
enlightenment through the Buddha's teachings.
Equality in attaining enlightenment through Buddhist teachings exists
because the Four Noble Truths are still present.  Is
that right?  But the problem is we're too
lazy to practice, too lazy to contemplate.
There.  So how can we allow the
wondrous Dharma to
continuously appear in our minds?
That's a very good thing.
O Kasyapa, neither the earthly realm nor the
water realm, nor the fire realm,
nor the wind realm cause the wondrous Dharma to disappear.
That means external things
like land, water, and wind don't cause the
Wonderful Dharma to disappear.
Time does not cause the Dharma to
disappear, nor does space cause the Dharma
to disappear.  Whenever fools are
present here, it is they who cause the Dharma to
disappear.  There you go.  Let's read some scriptures today.
The Buddha taught that fools should appear,
otherwise people will wonder why they became monks and
then insult each other by calling each other fools.  Is that right
?  When a fool appears, it means that
this person only worries about what?
Greed, attachment, ego.  Those who
refuse to practice any Dharma, who have no
thoughts of liberation, are called
fools who remember the greatest virtues.  Without the
mindset of liberation, if one
only thinks about how to eat
well, how to
make a lot of money,
how to stay young forever,
how to avoid dying when old, how to be
praised by others, how to achieve a
high and good reputation—that is, only greed
to satisfy those desires—then one is called a
fool appearing in the true Dharma of the
Buddha.  So, today we understand
what a fool is.  That's what the Buddha taught
here: whenever ignorant people are present, it is
they who cause the wondrous Dharma to disappear.  So, dear fellow
practitioners, remember this: how do you practice the six harmonies?
To ensure the enduring existence of the true Dharma.  The sublime
Dharma is the wine of Dharma; the sublime Dharma
never disappears.  So
what are we called here?  Only fools wouldn't
try to maintain harmony within the Buddhist community.  So
what are we referring to here?  It's just a matter of thinking it through
.  Is that right?  What is thinking?  Thinking
is about analyzing things thoroughly
.  Here, we're analyzing this so
we can use it for ourselves,
not to criticize others.  For
example, if I haven't practiced the six harmonies
today, I might say that
five instances of foolishness occurred today. But if someone else
can't practice them, you should
n't call them foolish
.  That's going to cause an argument.  Although
the Buddha said so, we should
n't say it ourselves.  Then Mai said, "See, we ca
n't practice drawing today
."  You're being foolish, fellow Daoist.  That led
to a big argument.  Remember that?  That's not right
.
So, we are just like
those monks, those monks who have
practiced for a long time, they are very
skilled, very skilled at admitting mistakes,
and they really like to hear those words, they really
like to hear those truthful words.
But we haven't heard the
truth yet.  I'm really stupid; when
people call me stupid, I just get really stupid
.  Isn't that right?  There you go.
I'm not that stupid, but if you tell me I'm
stupid, I'll get really stupid.  Your brothers will
see just how stupid I am.
When will you finally have to admit that
I am a wise and intelligent person?
Is that right?
We must understand that stupidity
exists in our hearts on a very, very
large scale.  We all still exist.
Why?  When someone insults
you and you feel annoyed, that shows a lot of stupidity still exists
.  Is that right?  It's annoying, and
then what do we have left?  Resentment
is what you call utter stupidity.  So, are we
all stupid or great?  Utterly stupid.  Only becoming a
monk can completely eradicate this.
Only through diligent practice can one eradicate this ignorance and utter
ignorance.  Isn't that right, my esteemed friend?
Therefore, with
that mindset of hidden contemplation, we are already inherently foolish, so when
people say we are foolish, they are just telling the
truth.  There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
But which one is correct?  For example, if you say that the
Buddha's teachings are correct, you shouldn't say they are
wrong.  I will tell the truth to protect them
.  Is that right?  But I
didn't mean any harm either.  If I am cruel,
what will I become?  He's stupid.  For example, if
someone says I'm practicing the true Dharma and
they say I'm deluded, I'll
explain to them that I'm not deluded.
But if I insult people, what am I
?  Then I'm the fool.  Since I am not
enlightened, what am I?  I'm creating art again,
aren't I?  I've made a
fool of myself again.
The heart of the character is wrapped around the word, continue reading.  There.  My
esteemed friends, do you think it's good that we're learning Buddhist teachings
?  Nothing else in the
world can be learned as well as this
.  Is that right?  Because we have attained enlightenment
.
This Kasyapa has five corrupt practices that cause the Wonderful
Dharma to become chaotic and disappear.
What is a year?  So here we
begin again, listening to the five
causes that lead to the disappearance of the Wonderful Dharma,
causing the Dharma to become chaotic.
This idea supports the idea that
whenever ignorant people are present, it is
they who cause the Dharma to disappear.
So here we see what the Buddha taught about the
characteristics of a foolish person.   The
stupid people here exhibit this behavior.
Here, Kashyapa, the monks,
nuns, male lay followers, and female lay followers live without
respecting or obeying their teacher.
Reverence means showing respect and worship.  There are those with esteemed
religious titles who respect and revere the
spiritual master.  We are disciples of the
Buddha, and our great teacher is
Shakyamuni Buddha.  Is that right?  We
must respect and revere the Buddha.
Furthermore, the next spiritual master who succeeds the Buddha
in
transmitting the Buddha's teachings to us is our
teacher,
our guide.
As for choosing a spiritual teacher,
we've already learned about it in the sutra,
which outlines the four ways to select a teacher.  So, who
should we identify as our spiritual guide
?  They are the ones who give us the
Dharma but do not give us sustenance.  Is that right
?  Or are they people who both grant permission
and what?  Feeding someone while they're feeding them is what makes them
our true spiritual master.  As for the Dharma,
we already know that we must cultivate the
Dharma of liberation, that we must possess the wondrous Dharma,
right?  This means we must study and
attain enlightenment through the Four Noble Truths and practice the
Noble Eightfold Path.
So, if we
practice right view, then as Buddhists,
we should practice the six harmonies,
right?
Practicing the six harmonies, observing the precepts, and
practicing the Bodhisattva path.  And
what do the monks practice?  What is a head and what is a tail?  The Four Foundations of Mindfulness.
Is that right?  We Buddhists also practice the four foundations of mindfulness
.  So here, the first sign
is that we do not respect the Buddha, we
do not follow the Buddha's teachings, which means
respecting
and obeying them.  The meaning of the word "acceptance" is
explained as follows.   As you wish
.  To comply means to follow.
In this context, "following the master's teachings" means following
what kind of teachings?  By the Buddha.  Dear fellow practitioners
.  The meaning of the word "adaptability" is
that "adaptability" belongs
within oneself, while "adaptability" belongs to the
realm of the esteemed fellow practitioners.
It depends on one's own mind, meaning that
one's own mind has its own knowledge, its
own perception, and its own thoughts.  To conform means to go along with
external circumstances.  So, when people
say "to conform to the precepts," it means
we must have a thought, and
what does that thought conform to?  Follow the
rules.  And to conform to the present state of the
world.  For example, if we
follow the precept of not killing,
then we will not kill.  Even though
animals are alive and well, if they
have nothing to eat, we shouldn't
kill them.  So what is an animal?  Is that a realm of enlightenment
?  What else?
What else is there to do but not kill?  It's gender.  But
what do our minds and thoughts belong to?  It depends
.  As you wish.  Follow the rules.  Is that right
?  Depending on
our mindset and how we adapt to the circumstances,
what do we retain?  Keeping the
precepts is called conforming to the precepts.
Do you understand, esteemed disciples?  This is about following the
master's instructions.  In other words, we must approach this with the
mindset of the spiritual master: what are we seeking
?  Pray for deliverance.  My thoughts
must follow the teachings of the spiritual master.  That is the
practice for liberation.  Furthermore, the spiritual master
who guides and teaches you is your teacher.
The master always said that monks must
practice asceticism and harmony, and rely on the Four Foundations of
Mindfulness.  What about our Buddhist followers?
Then we must also practice the Four Mindfulness Practices.
We still have to rely on the four aspects of body,
mind, and Dharma, right?  Then
we must practice the six harmonies, we must
practice the bodhisattva virtues.  Is that right
?  Monks also practice the Bodhisattva path
.  We're the same way.  If
we live without respect and obedience to the
spiritual teacher, then the
wondrous Dharma will disappear.  That's one.
Secondly, living without respect and without
conforming to the righteous path.  That's right, if we don't
respect and follow the true Dharma,
we are also
causing the Wonderful Dharma to become chaotic and
disappear.  That means we are not practicing the true
Dharma, but rather practicing
something of the Buddha that he did not speak of.  Is
n't that right, fellow practitioners?  That would be wrong.
From morning till night, sitting here, we don't
see ourselves
observing anything, letting go of anything,
but only gaining more greed and attachment.  If we love more,
we will die.  Is that correct?  Not
conforming to the righteous path.  For example,
imagine a Buddhist layperson like us, a
husband and wife living together,
but their karmic connection has ended.  What does the husband go out
with?  He went out with a girl.  Once they get back, they start making a
fuss and threatening to leave us.
We did try our best.  We've
tried everything already.  They say things like, "Living
well," or "This and that, living well
."  But they still abandoned me,
they even beat me,
they even insulted
my parents.  Is that right?
But they still deliberately
refused to give up.
We cannot accept the
fact that our time together has come to an end, yet
we still cling to attachment.  I'm so desperate to make
my husband fall in love with me again
.  So, isn't greed and attachment the source of suffering?
That means we can't stop that greed
.  We know that we only have just
enough.  That means the feelings are still being passed on
to each other.  Both partners must still have feelings
for each other and strive for the sake of their children, so we should
improve in every way
we can.  Is that right?  But
if we cling on too tightly, if we become
reckless and people insult
our parents, wouldn't that be unacceptable?  They insulted
their own bodies, and even committed
very shameless acts.  But
we still stubbornly insist on getting people
back, even
resorting to actions that are
n't good. Isn't that what you call love,
but also excessive greed?
Isn't that right?  If you are bound by attachment and desire,
then that is what is called living in violation of the
Dharma, as you all understand.  Because we don't
know that suffering is suffering, we don't know how to eliminate
that suffering, and yet we deliberately endure it, it is
called not living in accordance with the
Dharma,
not conforming to the Dharma.
Next, live without respecting or
conforming to the Sangha.
The phrase "following the Sangha" means that,
in relation to the Sangha, one must live in
harmony with the six principles.  But sometimes we live
with monks, with the monastic community—and I'm talking about
monks with monks, not laypeople like
ourselves.  Even among those monks, sometimes they
live without supporting each other,
without helping each other to live according to the Dharma.
Seeing others living righteously, they
develop evil and malicious intentions towards them.  Is that right?
So, we shouldn't comply with their demands.
What are these increases?  It is necessary to practice the path to
liberation.  Is that right?  It is necessary to
practice the methods of liberation.
But when they see that these monks have the opportunity to
practice and attain liberation, they hate,
resent, and harm them.
Living without respect and without conforming to the academic
world.
That means
we do not respect the precepts, we
do not conform to them.  As for not
conforming to the rules, Tâm Chế Hàn
Quán has already explained that.  For example, you might be very
hungry and craving something, but then you see a chicken
running around and you think, "I'll
eat first, I'll
kill it and eat it first."  Is that right?  Let's eat
first and then dedicate the merit later.  Here you go.
That's not conforming to the rules.
Living without respect or compliance
with meditation.
That means we Buddhists have already
learned some meditation techniques.  Is that right
?  Have you learned proper etiquette yet?
We have already studied meditation on proper conduct, but
we still cannot adapt to it.
So, if we practice meditation so
much, what should we do when we have a task to perform
?  One must
reflect.  Isn't that right?  If one has to
contemplate and abandon that meditation, then it
is simply a matter of contemplating and abandoning it.
Observing, abandoning
defilements, or abandoning defilements; observing feelings,
abandoning unwholesome feelings; observing
unwholesome minds, abandoning unwholesome minds; observing
unwholesome mental states, abandoning unwholesome mental states.
So, observe and then give it up, my dear friend.
There.  So, if there is no reverence or
compliance with meditation here,
what does the Buddha call all of this?  He's an
idiot.  There you go.  Clod.  So when will
we ever see ourselves appear
to be fools?  Let's
summarize this point here.  At that time, we
realized, firstly, that we did not
respect the Buddha, did not follow the Buddha,
did not obey the Buddha at all, and did not
conform to the Buddha in any way.  And once we
have chosen a teacher to guide
us,
we often fail to readily
follow their teachings.  Is that right?  There.
Furthermore, there is a lack of respect.  Not
conforming to the Dharma means that
we do not live in accordance with the Dharma, failing to
control our behavior in all
circumstances and in all areas where we must live
according to the Dharma.  Take the Dharma as
your guiding light.  Furthermore, it means not showing respect or
obedience to the monks.  Increase
means harmony, my esteemed fellow practitioners.  The interest in the
Quán Trạch sect increased, and they talked about it increasing,
but in reality, the increase was just a break-even point
.  The nature of a monk, or the essence of a
monk, is purity.  Purity
means harmony among all.  Harmony prevails within the realm of morality
and in right view.  And we
neither respect nor conform to
academic circles.  Gender.  Furthermore, if we were to
meditate at that time, we would be considered
fools.  That's what the Buddha taught.  Therefore,
we must always observe
these things in order to eliminate
our ignorance.  Look, little fish, it is
these corrupt practices that lead to chaos and
the disappearance of the Wonderful Dharma.  And there are five
principles that Kasyapa led to the
enduring, unchanging abiding of the Wonderful Dharma.
What is a year?
Here, Kashyapa, the monks,
nuns, male lay followers, and female lay followers live respectfully and obediently towards their
teachers, respectfully and obediently towards the Dharma, respectfully and obediently towards the Sangha, respectfully and obediently towards the
precepts, and respectfully and obediently towards
meditation.  It is these five principles that
Kasyapa leads to the enduring and unchanging abiding
of the Wonderful Dharma.  So, the
latter part, the heart and mind of the restaurant, has already been combined
with the previous part.
So, dear fellow practitioners on this website,
below this sutra, we
can read or listen to the
Dharma teachings about the four ways to choose a teacher that
the Buddha taught us, so that we can understand what a true
spiritual teacher is.
First, there are the Buddhas.  What's the second one?   He
is the spiritual master who is guiding me in this
present moment.  Therefore, dear fellow practitioners, the
Buddha's compassion is boundless,
and thus he teaches us how to prevent the wondrous Dharma
from disappearing
.
And the Buddha, with his wisdom,
contemplated and realized that he knew clearly
that future beings would
have the intention to preserve the sublime
Dharma.  Are there beings who can
practice the sublime Dharma?  Well, at
least we're here.  Even though we haven't
practiced much yet,
do we want the Dharma to endure?  Yes,
this is true.
How can we be authentic?  We uphold the Dharma.
Is that right?  We respect the Dharma, and
we practice the Dharma sincerely.
Even though you might practice
a little today, you might only be able to practice a little more after 3 or 7 days
.  But in any case,
we are the
practitioners.  Is that right?
The Buddha did not say anything that was without cause or
condition.  You must know that
in the age of decline, there will be
certain things.
Some of those individuals are also part of
our Chrysanthemum Club, and we earnestly hope that the true
Dharma will endure for a long time.  Is that right?   We sincerely hope that the true
Dharma will endure for a long time.  I sincerely
hope that this wondrous Dharma will not disappear.  When the sublime Dharma
endures for a long time, we
call it the sublime Dharma that
does not disappear.
The Buddha must have known that among them, most were just plain
stupid.  Is that right
?  But at least there
are
seeds of enlightenment within its mind, aren't there?  The
noble aspiration
is a very pure and compassionate wish
, a wish
for the true Dharma to endure for a long time.  And the Buddha
knew that even among these foolish children, even
among these foolish children,
a little bit of compassion could sprout, couldn't it?  It
also saw the Buddha's teachings as
wondrous, which eased
its worries and suffering.
And it also hopes that others may come to
know the Buddha's teachings, that
others may learn the wondrous Dharma, and that
through this wondrous Dharma, others may be relieved of their
afflictions and suffering.  Isn't that right, fellow
practitioners?  Therefore, his sermons were
never without context.  That's why
we can read this today, and we cherish it so much,
right?
These Dharma teachings are very precious, and that preciousness
is expressed through precious actions:
we joyfully listen and then encourage
each other to practice, isn't that right?
In
this program of cultivating compassion, we practice the Eight Precepts, don't we? We
make
vows to practice the Eight Precepts according to
circumstances, and we practice the Six Harmonies, don't we? We
practice the Six
Harmonies
daily. We practice the Bodhisattva virtues daily, don't we
?  So, are those who practice the Bodhisattva path and
uphold the Three Jewels?
We uphold the Three Jewels with all
that we are capable of upholding
.  Then, is that how you convey Buddhist teachings
?  Transmitting Buddhist teachings is
simply about upholding and preserving the Dharma.  To convey Buddhist teachings
to everyone is to hope that the
true Dharma will endure in the world for a long time.  Is that right
?  Then we put it into practice very honestly
.  There.  Reverend fellow practitioners,
we are all beings born from the
compassion of our Buddhas.
Then, we obey the Buddhas and
practice compassion. What will we become in the future
?  Attain Buddhahood.   Are
you all happy?  That's very,
very joyful, isn't it?  Extremely
delighted.  Therefore, this spiritual practice program is a
very valuable one.   That's how it is
with the heart of the island's temple.
But the Lord's heart also believes that
the esteemed fellow practitioners will feel the same way.  Because
the Buddha taught that encounters
only happen when there is a karmic connection.
The mind is still focused on the fact that we, along with our esteemed friends, have
met in
very auspicious circumstances.
Firstly, the
first prerequisite for anyone wishing to join the
Golden Chrysanthemum Buddhist Club is to first
orient themselves towards the Six Harmonious Principles.
Those who do not embrace the principles of harmony
will abandon them later.  Once you're in, you have to get out
eventually.  What is a star?  Why does it have to be so
tall?
Why should I have to go if I want to become a monk
or nun? Why should I be bound by such restrictions?  Is
that right?  It's like a child living
at home; they can come and go as they please,
without having to say goodbye.  Is that right
?  If you want to rest, then rest; if you want to earn a living,
then earn a living. Why should you have to report it to the authorities?
So, that means they don't focus on
cultivating their minds, right?  Cultivating respect for others is the priority,
not focusing solely on cultivating one's own mind.  Are you tired of cultivating
your mind?
Do whatever you like; only the outward appearance remains, the inner self is
gone, only the outward appearance remains.
And as for outward appearances, appearances do not lead to
liberation; appearances bring blessings,
but it is the mind that leads to liberation
.  Those of you who follow the path of enlightenment understand that you must free yourselves
from the attachment to self and
ego.  Why should I ask anyone?  Is that right
?  Why do I have to be like this?  There.
Dear fellow practitioners,
indeed, the true Dharma is truly wondrous,
noble, precious, and supremely
excellent.  What does it mean to be a miracle?
Because it helps people to escape suffering.
What kind of rice is considered superior?
Because this Dharma is the highest and only Dharma
.
Winning is the best thing ever.
By overcoming all obstacles,
one can
achieve ultimate happiness, right?
Never return to the path of suffering.   This
means that this Dharma leads to liberation from the
cycle of birth and death.
This is the practice of mindfulness that I would like to share with you, fellow
practitioners, and also to encourage
you.  We are all people who are destined to be
together in
this Golden Chrysanthemum Club.  What does it mean to have a truly blessed and harmonious relationship
?  Let us all aspire to attain supreme enlightenment in the future
, make the Bodhi vow,
practice the Bodhi deeds, and
practice the six harmonies.  And together
we hope that the wondrous Dharma will never disappear.   The
wondrous Dharma will bring lasting blessings in this world.
So, fellow practitioners, do you see how
auspicious our encounter has been
?  That prostitute was quite victorious too.
This particular encounter is the most fortunate of all
.  Is that right?  Winning amidst all
circumstances is the greatest blessing of all, my esteemed fellow
practitioners.
Now, regarding meditation, we
also have two topics related to meditation.  The
first topic is cultivating compassion.  The second topic
is the practice of upholding the Dharma.   The
first aspect of cultivating compassion is the benefit of
enlightenment to all beings.   The
next section focuses on the practical benefits gained through
a specific personal experience.   The third point is the aspiration for the true
Dharma to endure in the
world for a long time.  This aspiration is the
beginning of how we
cultivate compassion.   My
next wish is that all
my relatives, neighbors, people throughout the country and the
world, and all
living beings, may have the opportunity to attain
enlightenment in the Buddha's teachings.   The
second topic, contemplation of the Dharma of the Heart, is the contemplation of the
mind of reverence.  Let your mind be at peace
with the Buddha and your teacher.
For the master and the monks,
right now, the master is the only one
primarily teaching us.  Next is
regarding the Dharma,
then regarding the Sangha, then
regarding the precepts, and finally regarding
meditation.  So, this is the part that
our esteemed guests haven't understood yet. Let's
listen again to the section on geomancy here
.  To make it clear, let's discuss this further.
Do we have the greatest respect and reverence for the Buddha in our hearts?
How much respect do I have for my master, and
how do I show obedience in practicing his teachings?
Secondly, regarding the
true Dharma, we should examine the teachings we
receive and practice, and how diligently we are practicing them.
This means that every
day we must examine our minds
to see if we have truly
practiced the teachings we have received.  That means you have to
think about it every day to call it
worship, my esteemed friends.
Every day we think about it, meaning that
after each day we must review
how we practice the six harmonies,
how we practice the precepts,
how we practice the refuge-taking, and what
we practice most.  Especially
how do we convey the teachings of Buddhism,
right?  So,
how is our transmission of Buddhist teachings, our virtuous conduct, progressing
?
Furthermore, for the monks, the
monks themselves embody the six principles of harmony.  There, the
path to meditation is now fully covered.
There.
Dear fellow practitioners, in the
ritual of practicing and praying for the Dharma to
endure in the world, we recite
two sutras.  The first lesson
is about
how
to prevent the Dharma
from becoming chaotic or disappearing.
Chaos means that the wondrous Dharma has been corrupted and mixed in with
it.  There.  The second part then talks about
our practice,
specifically guiding us to practice so
that the Wonderful Dharma does not become
chaotic or disappear.  So,
this training program is a
training program that
includes doctrinal studies, but what kind of teachings are involved?  There are
very complete practices.   The
Buddha also taught that.
Later on, there were many students
but few practitioners, so
no one attained enlightenment.  Then we
must avoid this mask.  So, if you have an education,
what kind of skills do you need?  There is practice, there is cultivation.
So, when we hear the Buddha say something,
we must contemplate and understand its meaning and
purpose.  And practice diligently according to
circumstances.  Dear fellow practitioners, a
human body is very difficult to obtain.
Now that we have this body, we must make the most of
it.  Is that right?  Utilize full
capacity.
What can we practice by utilizing it?
Practice
happiness for yourself.
This body is like a boat
.  It can carry us
to the other shore because without a physical body,
how can we practice spiritual cultivation?
For whom can it carry us to the other side?  A
skilled captain knows how to navigate.  So,
the person who is good at meditation is none other than
our own diligence, and what exactly is that?
Knowing the right path means relying
on the precepts of the Buddha.
The path is a legal boundary.
And Tinh Tan is the one steering
this boat.  But even if we
knew the way, if we encountered
this captain who was
drunk and refused to steer in that direction,
his boat would soon
turn to another spot and sink.
Is that right?  When it encounters waves, it's as if it's about to sink
.  That's why we sometimes already
know.  But if we are still preoccupied with
playing and
not practicing self-cultivation,
we will lose our way, won't we?
Then we will be
corrupted.  So, since we have
this body, how can we make the most of it
?  It was effective.  We also have
this boat, let's figure out how to steer it
properly.  Otherwise, they would
have friends, and we would have friends too.  Then I ended up
using this body without knowing how.
That means we're the ones who suffer the consequences.  So,
since we have this body, we should
remember to use it for good purposes,
right?  To bring about
good things for ourselves and others, in accordance
with the Buddha's teachings.  Therefore, someone who
focuses their mind on contemplation and meditation is not necessarily a
very diligent person.
But I also understand the value
of diligence.  Well then, shall we shake
hands?  They form a group, diligently practicing together
every day, just like those esteemed fellow
practitioners.  Nothing needs to be reported on a monthly or
even daily basis.  Is that right?
Without the congregation, we can't
do it.  If we're alone, we
'll be lazy.  Is that right?  But
we have a group where we carry each other in tons, and we have to
count the tons.  It's impossible not to count the
tons.  For example, if one practices mindfulness and meditation and
has esteemed fellow practitioners, but fails to practice
inner harmony, it is
unacceptable to neglect one's duties, isn't it?  So, is it
true that by doing good deeds, one gains merit and wisdom?
There.  Therefore, we
are all fortunate to have been born with
this human body in our previous lives.
Although each person's circumstances are different due to
karma, both their own karma and the
karma of their collective karma
towards their loved ones, there are
many obstacles.
But in each of
those circumstances, we must be
good sailors, good captains,
to steer this ship
to a better place, right, my dear
friends?  Let's try our best, or rather, let's make a
promise to each other, to strive together and diligently
walk this path according to
the Buddha's teachings. That is the true way to show respect for the
Buddha and to be worthy of
ourselves.
Dear fellow practitioners, in this program of cultivating
compassion and praying for the
enduring presence of the true Dharma, every Dharma teaching is valuable, is
n't it?  Every Dharma teaching is
wonderful for us, helping us to achieve
blessings in the present moment and to
attain wisdom.
Later on,
of course, with this practice, every little
bit of merit will also be
merit leading to liberation.
May all fellow practitioners continue their spiritual progress.
Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.   We respectfully request that
our esteemed friends dedicate this merit.
Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
We
pray for your blessings so that we may
practice the Dharma in a way
that prevents the wondrous Dharma from becoming chaotic or
disappearing.
What meritorious deeds have we performed?
Following the teachings of the Buddha,
we also wish to dedicate our prayers so that the true
Dharma may endure in the world for a long time, and that the
wondrous Dharma may not be confused or
disappear.
May all sentient
beings develop the karmic conditions for
enlightenment, and may
they penetrate the noble Dharma
of the Buddha,
thereby alleviating their suffering and afflictions in this life.   The
deer diligently practiced asceticism to seek the
supreme enlightenment.
Namo Supreme Protector Bodhisattva Masataka.
May I
dedicate
this merit
to all disciples and
sentient beings so that they may all
attain Buddhahood.
[music]